we begin in Gaza where the Israeli
military says it has withdrawn most of
its troops from the canun area in the
South however one Brigade is to stay and
this is the devastation that has been
left behind it's not clear what is
behind this pullout now it comes 6
months after Israel launched its war on
the strip and what the international
court of justice says is a plausible
case of genocide now the assault began
after Hamas attacked Southern Israel on
October the 7th killing more than 1100
people and taking over 200 captive well
since then Israel's bombardment of Gaza
has killed more than 33,000 Palestinians
nearly half of them are children now
most of the population around 1.7
million people has been displaced now
another round of ceasefire negotiations
is set to resume in Cairo Israeli and
Hamas delegations are expected to attend
well in a moment we will speak with TK
abum who was standing by in Rafer and
Southern Gaza but first let's bring in
Rory Chalin who is an occupied East
Jerusalem for us and first of all Rory
can we talk about this troop withdrawal
from KH unun has Israel actually
explained what is behind this
decision well on the day that this war
reaches the halfe mark on the day that
the Israeli military announces the
deaths of four more Israeli soldiers
uh killed fighting in KH Yunis the
military also announces the withdrawal
of basically all ground troops in Gaza
apart from one Brigade now an
explanation for anyone who doesn't know
about military divisions and brigades
and battalions Etc a brigade in the
Israeli Army is about 2 to 5,000 people
now this brigade is being left in the
center of Gaza basically splitting uh
the strip in two between North and South
the Israeli Army hasn't said exactly why
it's done this but of course this is
being discussed extensively in Israeli
media and they're using uh military
sources and what they're saying is that
the military basically believes that the
fighting in KH Unice that operation has
been satisfactorily uh concluded the uh
division that was doing that fighting is
now being withdrawn for rest and
recuperation
and the model that is going to be used
for the ground forces in Gaza for the
foreseeable future is smaller raids
basically that are based on intelligence
that the Israeli military gets and the
uh Brigade that's left is going to be
able to go north it's going to be able
to go south and do those more targeted
raids and it's also going to be able to
prevent the displaced people from the
north who are now Sheltering the south
from going home home again that's
something the Israeli military at the
moment is saying that it wants to do it
wants to maintain that and at the same
time Rory Israel's finally confirmed
they will be sending a delegation to
Cairo for another round of negotiations
what more can you tell us about
that yeah this came out fairly late in
the day uh after an Israel war cabinet
meeting what we heard is that this
delegation which had been speculated
about for a while is going to be going
to Cairo it's it's it's either leaving
now or has already left and they will be
partaking in those discussions tonight
in Cairo it's a highlevel delegation it
includes the head of Mossad it includes
the head of shinb the internal security
uh Force agency and it includes some
some military uh people as well what's
different about this delegation is that
it has what's been called an expanded
mandate now what we understand that to
mean is that delegation is going to be
going with actual negotiating Powers
previous delegations that have gone from
Israel to Cairo for talks have basically
gone with very set parameters parameters
that were dictated to them by the
Netanyahu government they couldn't do
any discussions while they were there
they were essentially there to monitor
to listen and then come back this
delegation has something different about
it and that perhaps suggests that
momentum is moving towards some sort of
ceasefire deal whatever that might look
like and we can hear Netanyahu spoke
about his feelings on these talks
earlier on we can listen to him
now Hamas hopes that the pressure from
outside and inside will make Israel
surrender to these extreme demands it
will not happen Israel is ready for a
deal Israel is not ready to surrender
instead of international pressure being
directed at Israel which only causes
Hamas to harden its positions the
pressure of the International Community
should be direct
against
Hamas Rory there's also more pressure
coming on Netanyahu because we are
expecting another night of
anti-government protest how big an
effect are they actually having
though yeah just after I finished
speaking to you I'm going to be heading
down to where those protests are going
to be taking place it's going to be
outside the Israeli Parliament the the
knesset in Jerusalem now this protest
this evening is going to be uh captives
uh families and their supporters there
are kind of two strands of
demonstrations that are going on in
Israel at the moment there is the
protest being taken by the captives
families and their supporters and there
are bigger uh anti-government protests
going on as well we saw some at the
beginning of the week uh three nights of
successive protests in t Aviv uh they
ended in in some violence not big
violence but certainly arrest and and
heavy-handed policing what we're
starting to see happening in Israel at
the moment is these two groups of
protesters sometimes linking up uh to
share their goals and share their aims
it's happening of course tonight while
these uh Cairo talks are going to be
going on the general mood amongst the
capus families of course as it has been
for ages is that the government has not
done enough to bring the captives who
have still been kept in Gaza home the
anti-government demonstrations well they
want something a bit different they want
to essentially unseat Benjamin Netanyahu
they want him to leave office they hold
him responsible for October the 7th and
they want a new start and a new
government okay thanks so much Rory
we'll let you go to those uh protests
and we will talk to you a little later
on Rory chin for us there in occupied
East
Jerusalem okay well let's go uh to TK
abum who is in ruer and Southern Gaza
and ter can you just give us a bit of an
idea of what it is like there since the
pull out of Israeli troops from canun
can you explain what has been left in
their
wake yes Tom in fact the Israeli
military today has with drone from the
city of kanun and they have bulled their
troops to the eastern part of the city
there as they are right now stationed
but as people started to gradually and
partially return to check the houses and
what remained there they have been
describing the situation to be
completely uh undescribable and chaotic
as there was a great deal of Destruction
has been left to the entire area as a
result of the battles between Hamas
Fighters and the Israeli soldiers and
the unprecedented bombing campaign that
had been completely carried out by the
Israeli military there the entire the
city of kanu had been destroyed complete
destruction of civil infrastructure
their mosque residential houses as
people are saying that they have nothing
left there in the city of Khan hunis but
the withdrawal that has been taken and
carried out by the Israeli military
today could be seen as uh bringing
different strategical dimensions for the
Israeli military in fact on the ground
one is that it will allow for the
Israeli military to uh strategically
carry out uh pinpoints and also precise
deceptive military operations similarly
to what happened in a shifat hospital
after the Israeli withdrwal there and
also it will help people to return back
to the houses in khuna city after the
withdrawal and also which in turn will
facilitate the process of evacuation for
residents here in Rafa if there's going
to be any potential military incursion
for the city there and it also will help
the military to precisely carry out uh
pointed strikes to eliminate Hamas
operatives on the ground there so
similarly right now what has been left
in kanun is completely sheer destruction
and no sign of living there for people
and with complete change of the
Milestone of living for the majority of
the people in the city of kanun yeah t
we've just been uh watching pictures of
uh Kan Yunis uh in the hour since the
Israeli troops have left and it really
does seem as you say like nothing has
been left to survive there now as we
know it is 6 months since the War Began
can you just give us a sense of what it
is like in Gaza today have people used
it to take stock of what has happened
and and everything that has been lost in
that
time
well um exhausted Palestinians who are
completely right now being under
unrelenting bombardment for at least 6
months of the war are right now tired
and exhausted they are no longer uh able
to cope with the situation on the ground
specifically that the Israeli military
had destroyed the majority of areas that
they have been operating and we are
talking about more than 2third of gaza's
population being displaced and with more
than 23 of gona's residential houses
civil infrastructure and also uh talking
about educational facilities being
destroyed we have been talking to people
in the north showing uh and describing
the situation for us they are saying
that nothing of the Milestone of living
have been existing anymore they have
destroyed uh the majority of electric
infrastructure civil infrastructure
alongside that they have been also
destroying the water wells that were
feeding and providing people with water
services so generally the Milestone of
living in Gaza have completely changed
as people only right now looking forward
for a ceased fire that will help them to
return back again to the houses in the
north and that can guarantee a full
sensation of military acts on the ground
just to live peacefully without any
further bombardment or casualties among
civilians specifically that more than
33,000 Palestinians have been killed
since October the 7th with more than
75,000 others being warned till now okay
thanks so much TK ter abum for us there
in ruer and Southern
Gaza El jazer senior political analyst
Maan Bashar joins us
again um as TK was explaining there and
as we saw in the pictures the Israeli
troops have basically left nothing uh
left in KH Unis what do you think is
behind the
withdrawal it could be any number of uh
reasons uh I don't think we need to read
too much into it I don't think we need
to project too much uh into it uh it
could be as the Americans and some of
the Israelis are saying a question of
reshuffling
uh one Brigade has to go out and rest
and another one is replaced that's been
happening over the past six months but
it could also be um redeployment in to
the north part of Gaza or to the east of
Gaza in preparation as the Israelis say
to a an an eventual ra offensive is that
part of a psychological warfare to put
pressure on Hamas in the negotiations or
are the Israelis in fact preparing for
such a thing let me tell you why this is
really important the terminology
regardless whether we know or we don't
know why the brigades are
moving I've been arguing for a while
that for Biden this is the beginning of
the end of this war 6 months later too
long it needs to wind down it's the
beginning of the end for the Netanyahu
it's
still the end of the
beginning this is the stage where the
destruction has taken place the
analiation of much of Gaza and a lot of
its population and so on so forth but
now need there needs to be a
pacification of Gaza
neutralization and total Destruction of
hamas's presence in the fabric of the
Gaza Society needs to be an occupation
and then there
is the attack which now Israel talks
about turning the defensive into an
offensive in Lebanon right so for for
Netanyahu and his government this is
just the end of the beginning and hence
we're going to see a lot of movements
back and forth for the time being it's
clear that for Netanyahu the Gathering
of the storm even the perfect
storm over his government in terms of
the attack on the international Aid in
terms of the Iranian vowing uh revenge
in terms of domestic pressure in terms
of huge American uh momentum towards
pressure in terms of world fatigue with
Israel in terms of resistance in Gaza
there's a gathering storm so I think
netan would like to wither the Storm at
least for a number of weeks and a deal
will help him do that redeploying out of
the hot areas in Gaza would also help
him do that so does that put more
pressure on him and the Israeli
delegation that is going to Cairo to try
and negotiate something does does that
put more pressure on the Israelis to
actually come away with something solid
here some anything no matter how small
uh if like a first step um towards
something further so the thing
is that the gap between Israel and Hamas
until 48 hours ago was quite
huge and Hamas probably didn't want to
go to Gaz to Cairo unless there's a
change in America in Israeli position
and apparently there is some change in
the Israeli position
but if you notice from hamas's
statements at least maybe I'm maybe I'm
reading too much into it I think there
is a bit of a change in hamas's
declaration the past 24 hours for
example they used to say on the
condition that Israel
withdraws from all of Gaza now they say
on the basis of on the basis of Israel
on the basis of the Gaza displac in the
South moving back to their homes in the
north so there's there's a bit of change
of accents a bit of change of emphasis
but clearly there is an intention to get
to something even if it's
intermediate whereby they can show
results the successful or or the success
of any such Endeavor in Cairo will
depend in part on the cutas and the
Egyptian but mostly on the Americans
that have to put and use leverage with
Israel and try to arrive at bridging
Solutions we heard from Rory chellin uh
our correspondent in Israel Bally saying
that this Israeli delegation is actually
going to Cairo with a lot more power
than previous iterations have been in
terms of being actually able to
negotiate what what did you make of that
that was one of Biden's main demands in
his conversation on the phone with
natany it's amazing how much we can hang
on that damn phone call but it is or
apparently was one of the things that
Biden demanded Netanyahu because he knew
Netanyahu was going to play this game
again and again and again so the idea
was you couldn't get any results unless
the negotiating team has leverage has a
space to maneuver right has the capacity
the authority to to reach a deal now the
delegation is quite high ranking when
you have the the head of the internal
security and the head of the Mad the
exterior security right I mean that's it
there's nothing else you can have in
terms of reaching a deal they don't need
Netanyahu and his lackes back in Tel
Aviv to reach a deal the idea that this
is an expanded uh Authority now for the
delegation means that there is a better
chance but let's always remember that
the situation is dire in Gaza the gap
between Israel and Hamas is huge but
there is interest and there is momentum
of Bridging the gaps reaching a deal
even if it's an interim one okay thank
you so much moan as always we really do
appreciate it